I want you to do this before Google's
next algorithm update do you know how
many updates Google does every single
year the number might shock you I'll
look public typically only hear about a
few major ones every year the real
number is way higher can you guess what
it is
well in 2020 Google made 4 500 changes
to its search algorithm now where all
those changes huge of course not you
can't make major changes to an algorithm
of that size that often and not expect
complete chaos the majority of the
changes were so small that you probably
didn't even notice them but they still
made some changes and surely that
impacts your SEO right
look you're never gonna make 4 500
changes to your SEO strategy in a year
you'd have to quit what you're doing and
devote every single second and stay up
to figure things out
and that's just not realistic but what
you can do is stay ahead of the game for
the big updates and while you still
won't be able to fully anticipate every
single little change there's still
plenty you can do to make sure they
don't totally catch you off guard
here's a great way to stay ahead of
Google's next big rim update the
strategy include ongoing optimization
into your content plan look you probably
already know that Google heavily factors
in user experience when it comes to
search rankings but if you're not
actively updating your content on a
consistent basis you're putting your
entire website at a disadvantage for
when the next update comes around
so here's what I want you to do step one
go into Google search console
and what I want you to do is click on
your site portfolio look at your traffic
and compare year over year you can
actually compare the last 30 days to
what happened in the previous year and
you can do that using their date picker
I want you to see all the pages that
have decreased the most in traffic and I
want you to update those pages have you
noticed that anytime you do a Google
search Wikipedia is continually ranking
at the top
why is that it's because their content
is continually fresh
with things like gpt3 and all these AI
tools that just make you being able to
write content the snap of your fingers
it's easy to produce content everyone's
doing it did you know for the term auto
insurance in the United States there's
over a billion results on Google but
less than 200 000 searches do you think
we really need any more content on auto
insurance no but what do we need we need
people to continually update their
content more frequently
and when Google sees that you're
updating your content more frequently
they know it's fresh not outdated that's
more likely to provide the most value to
users now the way I recommended you to
update your content is you look at the
pages that decrease in their traffic the
most those are the pages that can
provide your biggest traffic gains
because those have the most opportunity
if they lost rankings it's usually
because they're not as fresh as a
competition or more thorough or more
in-depth and you can see what keywords
those pages rank for because Google
search console shows you and you can
just do Google searches for those
keywords see what other people are doing
that you're not and that'll give you
ideas on how to keep your page the most
user friendly up-to-date and providing
the most value
now the second thing I want you to do is
on a monthly basis keep track of all
your main money Pages these are the
pages that are getting most the traffic
to your website from Google and I want
you to keep track of all right here are
the main Pages just spend a quick few
minutes on the top 30 40 50 pages should
it take you more than a few hours a
month and create a list of the ones that
you think should be updated to provide
people the most value even if that means
that hey your traffic isn't dropping
just because your traffic isn't dropping
doesn't mean that page shouldn't be
updated you want to do what's best for
the user and not focus too much on
Google that's how you stay ahead of
their update because what does Google do
you think Google cares about how many
backlinks you have or how cool your site
looks sure these are all factors in
their algorithm what they really care
for is what a user likes and what they
don't because even if you had a million
backlinks if users go to your website
and they all bounce and click the back
button because they think your content
it sucks Google's not going to rank you
high yes there's all these SEO factors
but what they care the most about is is
the user satisfied and happy when they
land on your website if they are over
time you rank higher if they're not you
don't rank is higher that's why you need
to continually update your content
that's the key to staying ahead of
Google's next algorithm update sure
sometimes during some of the updates you
lose some traffic some of the updates
you gain some traffic but if you focus
on the user and you keep your content
fresh which is what's best for them in
the long run you should get more traffic
even though there's a lot of updates
that may not sway your way over time
it's like a graph that goes up and down
but overall it should go up and to the
right because you're doing what's best
for your users now if you just want my
team to do all this for you check out my
Ad Agency NP digital if you enjoyed this
video like it share it tell the people
about it and make sure you subscribe and
leave some comments if you have
questions I'm always here to help